.TH SOPLOS-KERNEL-INSTALLER 1 "2026-03-22" "1.0.0" "Soplos Linux"
.SH NAME
soplos-kernel-installer \- graphical kernel installer for Soplos Linux
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B soplos-kernel-installer
[\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B soplos-kernel-installer
is a GTK3 graphical frontend for downloading, patching, compiling and
installing the Linux kernel on Soplos Linux.
.PP
It supports optimized kernel profiles (Gaming, Audio/Video, Minimal,
Hardware Optimized), optional patches from original upstream sources
(BORE, PREEMPT_RT, Zen, and custom Soplos patches), Dracut initramfs
generation, Secure Boot signing via MOK, and NVIDIA DKMS module signing.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-force
Force a new instance, allowing multiple windows to be open simultaneously.
.SH CHANNELS
.TP
.B Soplos
Kernel versions curated by the Soplos Linux team with recommended patches.
.TP
.B Stable
Latest stable kernel from kernel.org.
.TP
.B LTS
Long-term support kernels from kernel.org.
.TP
.B RC
Release candidate / mainline kernels (experimental).
.SH PATCHES
.TP
.B BORE
Burst-Oriented Response Enhancer — improved CPU scheduler for desktop responsiveness.
Source: https://github.com/firelzrd/bore-scheduler
.TP
.B PREEMPT_RT
Full real-time preemption patch — ultra-low latency for audio/video production.
Source: https://cdn.kernel.org/pub/linux/kernel/projects/rt
.TP
.B Zen
Zen kernel optimizations for gaming and desktop performance.
Source: https://github.com/zen-kernel/zen-kernel
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/kernel_build/
Temporary directory for kernel sources and build artifacts.
.TP
.I ~/.config/soplos-kernel-installer/keys/
MOK key storage directory.
.TP
.I ~/.soplos_kernel_installer_history.json
Installation history.
.SH SECURE BOOT
When Secure Boot is active, the installer generates a Machine Owner Key (MOK)
pair, signs the compiled kernel and EFI binaries, and can sign NVIDIA DKMS
modules. The MOK must be enrolled in the BIOS using
.BR mokutil (1)
and a reboot into the MOK enrollment screen.
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Sergi Perich <info@soploslinux.com> for the Soplos Linux project.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2026 Sergi Perich.
License: GPL-3.0-or-later <https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0.html>.
.br
This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it.
There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR soplos-welcome (1),
.BR mokutil (1),
.BR dracut (8),
.BR dkms (8),
.BR update-grub (8)
